README.md, before:

# Dexed-tweaks

Now you can interface with Dexed from your own Python code! Dexed-tweaks is a simple Python package to load/save/edit entire user-created Dexed carts, single voices, individual parameter tweaking, as well as altering other Dexed functionality. *Should* support a real Yamaha DX7 as well, according to documentation.

Uses rtmidi backend to format SYSEX messages directly to [Dexed](https://github.com/asb2m10/dexed/tree/master). Formatting implemented from the [Dexed documentation](https://github.com/asb2m10/dexed/blob/master/Documentation/sysex-format.txt).

Having looked for a while in vain for something similar to this, I decided to just create it myself and share it. Based on my code from the [WaveformAI project](https://waveformai.wm.edu).

Licensed under GPL3

Eventially this will be installable from pip. Currently under development. ~60% complete.

Most functions have decent documentation. For more info, please look in the examples directory.


## Important Note Regarding Function Parameters and Limitations
Currently, while Dexed voice parameters work great, Dexed does not seem to support changing global function parameters (e.g. pitch bend, aftertouch, portamento, poly/mono switching, etc...). I have still implemented this functionality into my code, and it *should* work with a real DX7, but it is untested. I would appriciate any feedback here.

Dexed unfortunately cannot be prompted to dump the currently loaded Cart over MIDI automatically (at least not to my knowledge), without right-clicking in the cart selector and choosing 'send sysex cartridge to DX7'. Likewise, with the real DX7 you also have to press a button, as opposed to some other synths, (e.g. like the TX7) which support automatic dumping requests.

Commit message:

ADDED: Documentation, example code file UPDATED: README.md

README.md, after:

# Dexed-tweaks

Now you can interface with Dexed from your own Python code! Dexed-tweaks is a simple Python package to load/save/edit entire user-created Dexed carts, single voices, individual parameter tweaking, as well as altering other Dexed functionality. *Should* support a real Yamaha DX7 as well, according to documentation.

Uses rtmidi backend to format SYSEX messages directly to [Dexed](https://github.com/asb2m10/dexed/tree/master). Formatting implemented from the [Dexed documentation](https://github.com/asb2m10/dexed/blob/master/Documentation/sysex-format.txt).

Having looked for a while in vain for something similar to this, I decided to just create it myself and share it. Based on my code from the [WaveformAI project](https://waveformai.wm.edu).

Licensed under GPL3

Since I have created this project mostly as a help for myself, it's not feature complete at all. This has been primarily made for, and only tested under, Linux. If people show interest, I will expand this with additional functionality as Dexed is developed. 

Most functions have decent documentation. For more info, please look in the [examples](examples) directory.

## Version Releases
21/4/25 - 0.0.1


## Installation
Eventually this will be installable from pip.

Requires rtmidi:

```pip install rtmidi```

and python >= 3.10

For now, clone the repository into your project directory and import it from there.

## Important Note Regarding Function Parameters and Limitations
Currently, while Dexed voice parameters work great, Dexed does not seem to support changing global function parameters (e.g. pitch bend, aftertouch, portamento, poly/mono switching, etc...). I have still implemented this functionality into my code, and it *should* work with a real DX7, but it is untested. I would appriciate any feedback here.

I do not plan to add (although may reconsider if enough people ask) the ability to send note or control changes to Dexed. These are very general purpose MIDI messages, which can be sent using a plethora of other packages and example code. I consider that outside the scope of what I hope the package will be.

Dexed unfortunately cannot be prompted to dump the currently loaded Cart over MIDI automatically (at least not to my knowledge), without right-clicking in the cart selector and choosing 'send sysex cartridge to DX7'. Likewise, with the real DX7 you also have to press a button, as opposed to some other synths, (e.g. like the TX7) which support automatic dumping requests.
